.Net Core :
 - New version of dot net framework that is completely rewritten from scratch
 - Modular
 - Fast
 - Cross Platform
 - Light Weight
 - Free and Open Source
 - Supports different types of application possible(desktop,console,web, windows, mobile,cloud,Iot,ML,Microservices, Games etc...)
 - Supports Multiple languages
 - CLI Tools support (Command Line Interface)

It is both an exe and a dll based application

Architecture:
 Services : is a component that is intended for common consumption in an application, which can be injected into the dependant object either thru constructor,method,property

Middlewares : Components of application that performs asynchromous login on httpcontext, They can invoke the next middleware in the pipeline or terminate the request

Hosting Model : We In-process and Out-of process

When to Use .Net Core :
1. need for cross platform
2. Modern development practices viz. microservices, containeraization
3. Cloud-Native
4. IOT,ML
5. Migration of .net framework project

Program.cs class file: Is the entry Point for ASP.net Core Appln.. This contains the startupcode which

  1. configures the web host 
  2. configures and registers the services required by the application (MVC,Razor,Pages,etc)
  3. Register the Middlewares - request pipeline
  4. Start the application to listen to the Http Request

Hosting Model refers to how the application is launched/hosted and executed.
It Defines how the application starts, requests and responses are processed 
There are 2 types of Hosting Models

1. In-process : Our Asp.net core application will be hosted inside of the IIS Worker Process(w3wp.exe). It is only the IIS server that will handle all the incoming request.
Our Application is allowed to run in the same process as that of the IIS web server



Templates for Core Applications:
1. Asp.Net Core Empty :
2. Asp.Net Core WebApp : using Razor Pages
3. Asp.net Core WebAPI : RestFul services
4. ASp.Net Core Web App (Model, view controller): also can be used for restful services


Kestrel Web Server
Cross Platform web server : Is used to host the web application when we invoke it through the Projecr profile seen in launchsettings.json file

WWWRoot : is a folder 



