Employee Name           Manager Name
Smith			Ford
Allen			Blake

--self join query 
select e1.ename as 'Employee Name', m1.ename as 'Manager Name'
from Employee e1 join Employee m1 on e1.empno=m1.mgr-id

Subqueries : Are query within a query which can be nested
             We have to enclose the subqueries in parenthesis
             Place subqueries on the right hand side of the comparision operator
             Always the inner query selects the attribute that is required by the outer query
             We have to use single row operators with single row subquery and
             Multi row operators with multi row subquery

Single Row subqueries : return one value
  operators : =, >,<,>=,<=,<>

Multi Row subqueries : return more than one value
  operators : in, any, all in conjunction with the single row operators

Corelated Sub Queries : is a way of reading every row of the table and comaparing values in each row against related data
                        It is used whenever a subquery must return a different result or set of results for each row value by the main query

Normal Subquery : The inner select query executes once and returns the value to the outer query. It is then removed from the memory

Co-related Subquery : The inner query executes once for each candidate row of the outer query. In other words the inner query is driven by the outer query.

Case : 2 types of case
 1. Simple case : 1. case keyword is immediately followed by case expression and before when
                  2. Value exists for each when statement

 2. Searched case : 1. Case keyword is followed by when statement. There is no expression between case and when
                    2. Boolean expression exists for each when statement

 3. Nested case : case inside if else , case inside case


T-Sql (Transact Sql) : declare variables, if else construct, while loops, break, continue

variables are declared using a single '@' symbol  (local variables)
'@@' global variables
--assigning values to local variables is done using 'set' keyword or 'select'


Set Commands : are operators used to work with multiple tables
  List of set operators : Union, Union all, intersect, except

Rules for using set operators :
    1. the result set of both queries must have the same number of columns
    2. The data type of columns of both result set must be same
    3. If we want to sort the final result, then the order by clause must be given at the end of the query
    4. The positional ordering of the columns returned by the queries must be same

Difference between union and union all :
-----------------------------------------
Union removes duplicates occuring by concatenating 2 resultsets
Union All does not remove duplicates

Intersect : set operator that matches the resultset of top query with the resultset of bottom query and selects only the matching rows

Except : set operator which works the opposite of intersect


CTE : Common table Expression : allows us to define a temporary named resultset that is temporarily avialable in the execution scope of statements viz, select,insert,update,delete 
-We can perform dml operations using cte's
-We can have multiple ctes seperated with a ',' (comma) and  a singlw 'with' keyword for the fidrt cte definition
-We can refer one cte within another cte
-We can have recursive cte

syntax : with <ctename>/expression_name(col list)
         as
         (cte definition),
        ctename2 as(select ....)

       sql statements  - main query

Advantages of CTE's : Reusability, Complex quries can be broken down into different ctes expressions, provides more readbility to the queries, does not occupy memory

Disadvantages : CTE result set cannot be used by another Sql statement, not supported by all database platforms, developers may find it difficult to qrite cte queries
  


